
[[98|cataracts]]

[[106|business ideation]]
[[107|business automation]]


Things I want to know loads about...
heart disease
diabetes
inflammation
healthy eating
exercise
circadian rhythm - best times to do things
sleeping
weight lifting
workout out after a heart attack

What I want to make gains at - this needs to be a routine. - guitar, fitness, are the most imoprtant

hard, hard, hurt vs slow, slow, never ever stop

fitness - consistency is much more important that intensity - intensity later
this is the realm of small, noticiable, easy to recover from gains

Never miss twice - consistency
It is OK to have a beer, or an unhealthy meal. Or even miss a day of exercise. Never miss two in a row.

Stress as a proximate cause for my obesity and diabetes

deliberate practice
https://jamesclear.com/beginners-guide-deliberate-practice
Bengamin Franklin improving writing - CAN I USE THIS FOR GUITAR AS WELL? YES!
take examples of great writing, 
take each sentence and write down what it means
re-write teh article in own words
compare to the original
decide on where you;re failing and improve that

break into parts
identify weaknesses
practice to improve the weaknesses

we therefore need feedback - something quantitative

[[87|deliberate practice for guitar]]



An approach to getting feedback on stuff - essays, blog posts, etc.
https://42floors.com/blog/startups/thirty-percent-feedback

A good site on plain writing for technical documentation

https://plainlanguage.gov/



https://canada.coop/en/programs/co-op-development
https://canada.coop/en/programs/co-op-development



[[69|The Practice of Cloud System Administration: DevOps and SRE Practices for Web Services, Volume 2]]
Thomas A. Limoncelli, Strata R. Chalup, and Christina J. Hogan





Cooperatives

- I've always wanted to run my own business, but in many ways that's not at all what I want
- I'm no longer interested in working for others, but I don't want to work alone
- I don't want to put myself on a pedestal and be a boss either. Years of technical leadership has shown me that.
- I fully believe that the best ideas come from a diverse pool
- I fully believe that everyone working for an enteprise should share in the wealth it generates
- IFB that everyone working for the entrerprise should have a say in what goes on
- this keeps going on and on and on
- I think I've glommed onto the idea of a technical cooperative where everyone can share their skills
- Short term contracts can be used
- I wionder if this could work for musicians. What would we do?

There are other ideas as well: 

- tech coop that focuses:wq
- on environmental and social issues



Songwriting Ideas

- go to amazon and search for "fiction + keyword"
- search through this for power words
- pick a title from this list

turn these into hooks

- come up with 1 great line - 4-6 words
- look for a rhythm to these words

this is basically rapid prototyping
if it doesn;t work, put it in your book


Songwriting Structure

Start with this, and then play when you have this down

I-V-V--(p)-C-V-(p)-C-B-C
I - 4 bars
V1 - 8 bars
V2 - 8 bars
p - 4 bars
C - 8 bars
V3 - 8 bars
B - 8 bars

for chorus to be big, make the things before it smaller
always better to remove stuff from verse

dynamics - more instruments 
pitch - higher in chorus
lyrics - chorus, limit to 5 or 6 words.

start for rack band setup. guitar, drum, vox, bass

when the instruments come in, to add impact

add one element at a time, no overwhelm

I - one instrument only
V - vox enter low, guitar riff, bass long ntoes, drums kick only
C - vox high, guitar chords, bass 8ths, drums add snare/crash
v2 - all same except bass plays quarters
B - new chords, bass follows harmony, drums ride


testing a terraform plan

the simplest is validate. very simle indeed.

conftest


possible tools

terratest
serverspec


Question - how can terraform (and packer) become more application-like?

can I use docker to make my deployments faster and safer?



