


ANT 6100H F – History of Anthropological Thought – SCL MA required (Hillewaert/Kilroy) (return to timetable)

As an introduction to the history of anthrological thought, this MA-level core course aims to familiarize students with the key thinkers, theoretical approaches, and ethnographic innovations that shaped the discipline between the late 1800’s and the 1980’s.  It likewise considers the kinds of knowledge, ethics, and modes of both representation and analysis these different approaches approaches have demanded.  An understanding of the historically situated character of our discipline is a crucial component of our contemporary practice, and this includes taking seriously the intellectual genealogies out of which–and often against which—contemporary thought has emerged.

ANT 3047H F – Evolutionary Anthropology Theory 

ANT 4020H S – Archaeology Theory (core course) (Cipolla) (return to timetable)

This seminar offers an in-depth examination of the history of archaeological theory and the major theoretical approaches defining the discipline today. Students explore competing schools of archaeological thought concerned with the study of material culture, past social formations, and historical process. From functionalist and natural science-focused positions to poststructural and postmodern inquiries into meaning, representation, and politics to more recent archaeological attempts to de-center humans in hopes of liberating things, this seminar covers a diverse set of perspectives. Emphasis is placed on how shifting positions on human nature, social organization, alterity, gender, and power directly shape archaeological reconstructions and representations of the past. Ultimately, the seminar should provide students with a rich understanding of the theoretical frameworks that underpin contemporary archaeological research and the unique problems inherent in archaeological efforts to represent and interpret the material record.

ANT2500Y - MSc Research Paper
No information given. What's included in this?
