%title CAP theorem - consistency, availability, partition resistence
%date 2020-05-27 10:27

:sre:devops:distributed-systems:

= Summary =

The CAP (consistency, availability, partition tolerance) theorem states that it is not possible to build a
distributed system that can guarantee consistency, availability, and partition tolerance at the same time.
Any 2 of the constraints can be achieved simultaneously. It is important to know which of the three are
guaranteed.

A consistent system has the same data on all nodes at the same time. Commits are atomic and are pushed
across all nodes at once. Systems that do not provide consistency may provide eventual consistency.

An available system guarantees that every request receives a valid response.

Partition tolerance refers to the capability of a system to continue working despite message loss of a 
partial failure of the system. An exampel of this is a system which can continue to respond to requests
even though the machines supplying the service can no longer communicate with each other.

== Examples ==

=== Consistent-Available Systems ===

- traditional RDMS databases (postgresql, mysql, MSSQL)
- vertica
- spanner

=== Available-Partition Tolerant Systems ===

- Voldemort
- Riak
- Cassandra
- CouchDB
- DynamoDB

=== Consistent-Partition Tolerant Systems ===

- MongoDB
- HBase
- Redis
- MemcacheD
- Bigtable like systems

= Links =

 
= Backlinks =
  - [[69|The Practice of Cloud System Administration: DevOps and SRE Practices for Web Services, Volume 2]]
