%title five whys technique
%date 2020-05-30 11:48

:lean:root-cause-analysis:

The five whys is a diagnostic technique and [[82|mental model]] that allows people to
ascertain the root cause of an issue. This technique works be understanding that
the actual cause of the problem is much deeper than the proximate cause. 

Note that the number five is an arbitrary, but reasonable, number of times to cycle 
through the questions. Also, it is likely that issues will have multiple causes
that can cause the root cause analysis to branch.

Here's how it works. For each issue, ask why it happens. For each response, try
and find out why *that* happened. Repeat this until you think you're at a reasonable
root cause for the issue. 

The five whys technique is related to the [[78|abstraction laddering]] mental model.

Example problem: "The deployment to production failed.

1. Why did the deployment fail? The new feature failed half of the time.
2. Why did it fail half the time? The load balanced service was storing and returning local state.
3. Why was that not found in development? Development was working and testing on a local version only.
4. Why was development working local only? There were demos going on in the staging environment?
5. Why were there demos using the staging environment? There is no other environment for demos.

So, the root cause for this issue is the lack of enough environments for safe testing
and development of software.
= Backlinks =
  - [[78|abstraction laddering]]
