%title AIDE - Advance Intrusion Detection Environment
%date 2020-05-24 11:40

:incomplete:security:outline:aide:reading-notes:

= Summary =

[[|Keeping an Eye On Your Filesystem with AIDE]]










== Clusters ==

what is AIDE
how does AIDE work
how do you configure AIDE
how do you install AIDE
why would you want AIDE
how do you check files with AIDE
how can you further secure AIDE

== Sub Articles ==
Running AIDE with IaC
Running AIDE on AWS
A good workflow for AIDE
A good ansible setup for AIDE

= Find Citations =
The source code
The place to find it
Where to read more on the intarweebs


= first = 
https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-advanced-intrusion-detection-environment-on-centos/


it is a file system integrity check
it creates a database that can be used to test the files and directories
in centos based systems: yum install aide
it has a config file - what can be done with this?
thje main config file is in /etc/aide.conf
what's in the database?
can a wily hacker modify the database? How do you protect against that?
you need to generate the database - it is done as follows: aide --init
it creates a database in /var/lib/aide/aide.bb.new.gz or somesuch
you need to move it to /var/lib/aide/aide.bb.gz
you can now chec with aide --check
there is no regular check. this can be done with cron
simple dump check:
#!/bin/sh
​#aide checkDATE=`date +%Y-%m-%d`
​aide --check > /tmp/aidecheck_$DATE.txt

question. does my base AMI handle this properly? Does it do checks? Where does it dump them?
question. how can I make sure they send to an S3 bucket
question how and why wold we hook this up to an alerting mechanism

= second =
https://www.tecmint.com/check-integrity-of-file-and-directory-using-aide-in-linux/

aide.conf contains the rules used by Aide to define its checks
rules can be combined into groupings 
the rules can be used to watch for specific files and directories
after defining the rules you init a database and then rename it
you should move the database to a secure location
you then check files against the database. you should import the file for this check.
you can use update to update the database after checking the changes
but, since infrastructure as code, just replace the damn machine

= from me =
how could you use this is a combined system that alerts and logs
how can you increase security in an infrastructure as code environment






